This repository demonstrates projects done in Data Mining during my coursework at NJIT.
It includes two projects:- 
1) Association rules generation by Apriori and Brute Force algorithms.
2) Analysing the performance of two Supervised Data Mining/Machine Learning algorithms.


Project Introduction for 1st project on "Association rules generation" :-
1) Create few items usually seen in Amazon, K-mart, or any other supermarkets 
2) Create a database of 20 transactions each containing some of these items. 
3) Repeat (1) by creating 4 additional, different databases each containing 20 transactions.
4) Using the Brute force technique, generate and print out all the association rules and the input transactions for each of the 5 transactional databases created.
5) Repeat (3) for Apriori algorithm. Min support and min confidence are user defined.
6) Compare Timing Performance for brute force vs apriori
7) Conclusion achieved - The association rules generated by the Apriori and Brute Force are the same.But, Apriori is much faster.


Project Introduction for 2nd project on "Supervised Machine Learning algorithms"
 
This project is focused on analysing the performance of two Machine Learning Algorithms and comparing these two algorithms with various performance parameters like ROC/AUC curve, accuracy, etc. Out of the many ML algorithms I have selected ​Random Forest and Naive Bayes Algorithm 

Dataset used, is for the classification of voice samples as male/female and is taken from the website :- Kaggle. 

The tool which is used to carry out experiments and run analysis is ​Weka - open source tool implemented in Java language. 

At the end of this project, we are successfully able to run the two algorithms on the dataset and generate necessary performance data and graphs required for the comparison of two algorithms.

Implementation details can be found in attached reports.
